DOCS-8198-CONN-scripting-module-kt (#812)
mulesoft/docs-connectors: scripting/2.0/modules/ROOT/pages/scripting-module-upgrade-migrate.adoc

[%header,cols="50a,50a"]
|===
|From Version | To Version
|1.1.7 |2.0.0
|===

== Changes in This Release

This release contains the following changes:

* Scripting Module no longer provides default scripting engines:
** Use the *Configure...* helper button to install your desired engines.
** Specify the desired engine in the `pom.xml` file of your application.
* For any data stream provided in the payload or variables, a cursor object opens and binds, preventing the need for you to open new cursors. Any `openCursor()` provided to the Scripting Module closes after the script execution.

== Upgrade Prerequisites

Before you perform the upgrade, you must complete the following:

* Create a backup of your files, data, and configurations in case you need to restore to them.

== Upgrade Steps

Follow these steps to perform the upgrade:

. In Anypoint Studio, create a Mule project.
. In *Mule Palette*, click *Search in Exchange*.
. In *Add Dependencies to Project*, enter  in the search field.
. In *Available modules*, select `Scripting Module` and click *Add*.
. Click *Finish*.
. Verify that the `mule-scripting-module` dependency version is `2.0.0` in the file in the Mule project.

> Studio upgrades the connector automatically.

Reviewer: This may be confusing, because seems that Studio is upgrading the connector and their configs. I would be more explicit of "Studio bumps the version only"

== Post Upgrade Steps

After you install the latest version of the connector, add a `jsr-223` compliant scripting engine:

. In Anypoint Studio, navigate to the *Execute* tab operation of your application.

> . Install and configure a `jsr-223` compliant engine. There are two options: +

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Use one of the following two options to install and configure a `jsr-223` compliant engine: +
```

* In the *Required Libraries* section, click *Configure...* and select one of the following options to search and install the engine: +

> ** Add recommended libraries +

Reviewer: "Recommended" is wrong, are more the "example" libraries

Author: "Add recommended libraries" is the name that appears in the window of Studio.

> Install Groovy engine as recommended. This option only appears if you previously did not install Groovy.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Install Groovy engine as recommended. This option appears only if you did not previously install Groovy.
```

** *Use local file* +
Browse a local file for the required engine library and install it.
** *Add Maven dependency* +
Browse the engine dependency and install it. +

> * In the `pom.xml` file, manually add the engine both in the:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* In the `pom.xml` file, manually add the engine in both of the following sections:
```

> ** `<sharedLibraries>` tags under the `<configuration>` section.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
** `<sharedLibraries>` tags under the `<configuration>` section
```

> ** `<dependency>` tags under the `<dependencies>` section.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
** `<dependency>` tags under the `<dependencies>` section
```

[start=3]

> . In the *General* section of the *Execute* tab, press the refresh button to update the engine values list for the operation.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. In the *General* section of the *Execute* tab, click the refresh button to update the engine values list for the operation.
```

. In *Engine*, select the installed engine.

=== Verify the Upgrade

After you install the latest version of the connector, verify the upgrade:

. In Studio, verify that there are no errors in the *Problems* or *Console* views.
. Verify that there are no problems in the project  file.
. Test the connection to verify that the operations work.

== Troubleshooting

* Engine names display visibility +

> Engine names display differently than in previous Scripting Module versions. When you see different engine names in the Studio configuration tab and Configuration XML tab, this occurs because the engine company defines and provides an identifier for both the engine and language name, for example:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When you see different engine names in the Studio configuration tab and Configuration XML tab, engine names display differently than in previous Scripting Module versions. This occurs because the engine company defines and provides an identifier for both the engine and language name, for example:
```

[%header,cols="50a,50a,50a"]
|===
|Engine Name| Studio Configuration | Configuration XML
|Jython |Jython | Python
|Groovy |Groovy Scripting Engine | Groovy
|Nashorn (JavaScript) |Oracle Nashorn | ECMASCript
|===

* Jython engine +

> When you use Jython engine not standalone versions in Scripting Module v2.0, the application does not work. Previous Scripting Module versions worked with not standalone versions of Jython. Use `jython-standalone` version for Scripting Module v2.0. For additional information, see xref:scripting-module-xml-maven.adoc[Scripting Module XML and Maven Support].

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When you use a Jython engine that's not a standalone version in Scripting Module v2.0, the application does not work. Previous Scripting Module versions worked with Jyton engines that were not standalone versions of Jython. Use `jython-standalone` version for Scripting Module v2.0. For additional information, see xref:scripting-module-xml-maven.adoc[Scripting Module XML and Maven Support].
```

* Oracle Nashorn engine +

> When you see Oracle Nashorn (ECMASCript) engine as an option to select in the Studio configuration tab without the necessity to install or configure it, this indicates that some versions of JVM (Java Virtual Machine) previously installed and use the engine.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When you see Oracle Nashorn (ECMASCript) engine as an option to select in the Studio configuration tab but with the ability to install or configure it disabled, this indicates that some versions of JVM (Java Virtual Machine) were previously installed and are using the engine.
```
